# Gozle ID
The OAuth2 provider and REST Api for Gozle ID.

## 1. Client Registration
New application Client can be registered at https://i.gozle.com.tm/o/admin/applications

Extract and save to database _client_id_ and _client_secret_ from response.

## 2. The Authorization Request
Clients will direct a user’s browser to the authorization server to begin the OAuth process.

The client creates a "_code_verifier_" for each Authorization Request, in the following manner:
  ```
  code_verifier = high-entropy cryptographic random STRING
    using the unreserved characters [A-Z] / [a-z] / [0-9] / "-" / "." / "_" / "~"
    with a minimum length of 43 characters and a maximum length of 128 characters
  ```

The client then creates a code challenge derived from the code
verifier by using one of the following transformations on the code
verifier:
  + plain
      - code_challenge = code_verifier
  
  + S256
      - code_challenge = BASE64URL-ENCODE(SHA256(ASCII(code_verifier)))

For example in Python3:
  ```
  import random
  import string
  import base64
  import hashlib
  
  code_verifier = ''.join(random.choice(string.ascii_uppercase + string.digits) for _ in range(random.randint(43, 128)))
  
  code_challenge = hashlib.sha256(code_verifier.encode('utf-8')).digest()
  code_challenge = base64.urlsafe_b64encode(code_challenge).decode('utf-8').replace('=', '')
  ```

### Request Parameters

+ #### response_type
  _response_type_ will be set to code, indicating that the application expects to receive an _authorization code_ if successful.

+ #### client_id
  The client ID you received when you first created the application

+ #### redirect_uri (optional)
  Indicates the URL to return the user to after authorization is complete, such as https://mysite.com/api/auth

+ #### scope (optional)
  The request may have one or more _scope_ values indicating additional access requested by the application. The authorization server will need to display the requested scopes to the user.

+ #### state (recommended)
  The _state_ parameter is used by the application to store request-specific data and/or prevent CSRF attacks. The authorization server must return the unmodified _state_ value back to the application.

  A random string generated by your application, which you’ll verify later.

+ #### code_challenge (recomended)
  Instead of immediately launching a browser, the client first creates what is known as a “code verifier“. This is a cryptographically random string using the characters A-Z, a-z, 0-9, and the punctuation characters -._~ (hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde), between 43 and 128 characters long.

+ #### code_challenge_method
  Either _plain_ or _S256_, depending on whether the challenge is the plain verifier string or the SHA256 hash of the string.

For example, if the authorization server URL is https://id.gozle.com.tm/o/authorize then the client will craft a URL like the following and direct the user’s browser to it.
  ```
  https://id.gozle.com.tm/o/authorize?response_type=code
  &client_id=vW1RcAl7Mb0d5gyHNQIAcH110lWoOW2BmWJIero8
  &code_challenge=XRi41b-5yHtTojvCpXFpsLUnmGFz6xR15c3vpPANAvM
  &code_challenge_method=S256
  &state=x1234zxcghoul
  &redirect_uri=https://mysite.com/api/auth
  ```
For the sake of example we used https://mysite.com/api/auth as _redirect_uri_ you will get a Page not found (404) but it worked if you get a url like:
  ```
  https://mysite.com/api/auth?code=uVqLxiHDKIirldDZQfSnDsmYW1Abj2
  ```

This is the OAuth2 provider trying to give you a code. in this case ***uVqLxiHDKIirldDZQfSnDsmYW1Abj2***.

## 3. Authorization Code Exchange
The application will then exchange the authorization code for an access token. In addition to the parameters defined in Authorization Code Request , the client will also send the code_verifier parameter. 

Requst handler at https://mysite.com/api/auth should get Authorization Code from STEP 3 and send request to OAuth2 provider with that code.

A complete access token request will include the following parameters:
  ```
  grant_type=authorization_code – Indicates the grant type of this token request
  code – The client will send the authorization code it obtained in the redirect
  redirect_uri – The redirect URL that was used in the initial authorization request
  client_id – The application’s registered client ID
  client_secret – The application’s registered client secret
  code_verifier – The code verifier for the PKCE request, that the app originally generated before the authorization request.
  ```

Access token and Refresh token is retrieved from https://id.gozle.com.tm/o/token

Example url:
  ```
  https://id.gozle.com.tm/o/token?response_type=code
  &client_id={CLIENT_ID}
  &client_secret={CLIENT_SECRET}
  &code={CODE}
  &code_verifier={CODE_VERIFIER}
  &redirect_uri=https://mysite.com/api/auth
  &grant_type=authorization_code
  ```

+ **CLIENT_ID** - The application’s registered client ID
+ **CLIENT_SECRET** - The application’s registered client ID
+ **CODE** - _code_ returned in step 3
+ **CODE_VERIFIER** - _code_verifier_ generated in step 1

## 4.
